Dev/finalpgd5.4 (#5293)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/rel_notes/pgd_5.4.0_rel_notes.mdx

Package managers on Debian, RHEL, and SLES pull in the required EDB Postgres Advanced Server or EDB Postgres Extended 
upgrades with an upgrade of EDB Postgres Distributed.
!!!

## Features

| Component | Version | Description  | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatically detect and synchronize all available nodes to the furthest ahead node for transactions originating from failed or disconnected node. ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatic resolution of pending group commit transactions when the originating node fails or disconnects, ensuring uninterrupted transaction processing within the cluster. ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Added ability to set `apply_delay` group option on sub-groups, enabling adding of delayed subscriber-only nodes | | /* 25-apply-delay */

## Enhancements

| Component | Version  |Description | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|

## Bug fixes

| Component | Version |Description  | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fixed memory leaks when running a query on some or all nodes. |  | /* 10-Memory-Leak-Run-On-All-Nodes */

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Resolved an issue of high CPU usage for concensus processes | RT97649 | /* 20-High-CPU-usage-consensus */

Reviewer: There's still a typo here: "concensus" should be "consensus"

Author: Fixed

!!!

## Highlights of EDB Postgres Distributed 5.4.0

* Highlights needed

## Compatibility

!!! Note EDB Server version compatibility
This version requires the recently released Postgres versions 14.10, 15.4,
or 16.1 (or later) of EDB Postgres Advanced Server or EDB Postgres Extended
Server. No such restrictions exist for PostgreSQL Server.

Package managers on Debian, RHEL, and SLES pull in the required EDB Postgres Advanced Server or EDB Postgres Extended 
upgrades with an upgrade of EDB Postgres Distributed.
!!!

## Features

| Component | Version | Description  | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatically detect and synchronize all available nodes to the furthest ahead node for transactions originating from failed or disconnected node. ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatic resolution of pending group commit transactions when the originating node fails or disconnects, ensuring uninterrupted transaction processing within the cluster. ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Added ability to set `apply_delay` group option on sub-groups, enabling adding of delayed subscriber-only nodes | | /* 25-apply-delay */

> ## Enhancements

Reviewer 2: Should we just remove this section?

Author: Was leaving in place in case something needs demoting/promoting into enhancements.

Also up to PMs to move things around when sorting out highlights for top of release notes.

Author: Also, now gone.

| Component | Version  |Description | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|

## Bug fixes

| Component | Version |Description  | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-------------|-----------|
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fixed memory leaks when running a query on some or all nodes. |  | /* 10-Memory-Leak-Run-On-All-Nodes */

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Resolved an issue of high CPU usage for concensus processes | RT97649 | /* 20-High-CPU-usage-consensus */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Resolved an issue of high CPU usage for consensus processes | RT97649 | /* 20-High-CPU-usage-consensus */
```

| BDR       | 5.4.0   | bdr_init_physical: fixed debug logging of pg_ctl enabling output capture for debugging purposes || /*     94-bdr_init_physical-fix-pg_ctl-debug-logging */
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix assertion failure when TargetColumnMissing conflict occurs in a Group Commit transaction ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix detection of UpdateOriginChange conflict to be more accurate ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Support timeout for normal Group Commit transaction ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix error handling in writer when there are lock timeouts or conflicts or deadlocks with and without group commit transactions ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Handle failure of source of synchronization and reconciliation coordinator ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Reconcile correctly when origin node fails before sending prepare to any node ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Apply commit scope timeout to reconciliation ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Make sure reconciliation and node synchronization with respect to down node is not impacted when raft is down ||

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Allow the origin of group commit transactions to wait for responses from all the required nodes before taking an abort decision ||

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Allow the origin of group commit transactions to wait for responses from all the required nodes before taking an abort decision ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Run the ANALYZE on the internal raft tables. | RT97735 |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix segfault in I2PC concurrent abort case. | RT93962 |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Avoid bypassing other extensions in BdrProcessUtility when processing COPY..TO. | RT99345 |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Ensure that consensus connection are handled correctly. | RT97649 |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix memory leaks while running monitoring queries. | RT99231, RT95314 |
```

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Allow the origin of group commit transactions to wait for responses from all the required nodes before taking an abort decision ||

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Allow the origin of group commit transactions to wait for responses from all the required nodes before taking an abort decision ||
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | EAGER transaction not aborting when raft is disabled (not working) then re-enabled. | RT101055 |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Increase default bdr.raft_keep_min_entries to 1000 for 100. ||
```

upgrades with an upgrade of EDB Postgres Distributed.
!!!

## Features

| Component | Version | Description                                                                                                                                                                 | Addresses |
|-----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatically detect and synchronize all available nodes to the furthest ahead node for transactions originating from failed or disconnected node.                          |           |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Automatic resolution of pending group commit transactions when the originating node fails or disconnects, ensuring uninterrupted transaction processing within the cluster. |           |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Added ability to set `apply_delay` group option on sub-groups, enabling adding of delayed subscriber-only nodes.                                                            |           |

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| BDR | 5.4.0 | Loading data using EDB*Loader (except direct mode) is now supported. | |

```

| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Fix error handling in writer when there are lock timeouts or conflicts or deadlocks with and without group commit transactions.                                                                                                                                                                                 |                  |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Handle failure of source of synchronization and reconciliation coordinator.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                  |
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Reconcile correctly when origin node fails before sending prepare to any node.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                  |

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Apply commit scope timeout to reconciliation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is just for feature we introduce in this version, so nothing changed for customer.

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Make sure reconciliation and node synchronization with respect to down node is not impacted when raft is down.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is just for feature we introduce in this version, so nothing changed for customer.

Author: Removed

| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Allow the origin of group commit transactions to wait for responses from all the required nodes before taking an abort decision.                                                                                                                                                                                |                  |

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | EAGER transaction not aborting when raft is disabled (not working) then re-enabled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | RT101055         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Eager transactions abort correctly after Raft was disabled or not working and has recovered.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | RT101055         |
```

> | BDR       | 5.4.0   | Increase default bdr.raft_keep_min_entries to 1000 for 100.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| BDR       | 5.4.0   | Increase default bdr.raft_keep_min_entries to 1000 from 100.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                  |
```
